 





The Utilities Menu
 
The Utility Menu contains utilities that assist with managing the data contained on your storage devices.  They are not dangerous to use as long as you pay attention to whether or not the source or destination is what you have in mind when operating them.

COPY A FOLDER OR FILE
Use the "Copy A Folder or File" command to create a VERY FAST copy of a file or a folder.  It performs nearly exactly the way Apple's Finder does when the the user tries to copy a file or folder from one location to another. Dates, colors, window positions, view preferences, scroll amounts, etc. are all properly preserved.  Your duplicate copy will be renamed. This function will use as much local memory, and if needed, as much temporary memory as possible, even if fragmented. File comments are not preserved in this version. Your duplicate copy will be renamed, for example : "My_Music copy 199" will become "My_Music copy 200". To select a folder or disk partition to copy depress the "Select File or Folder" button. To select an entire volume, enter any directory on that volume and then, with NOTHING selected, depress the "Select File or Folder" button. If you are positioned all the way at the top root (Desktop), then instead of selecting every volume as the source or target locations, the first volume would be selected.

How good is our copy file/folder feature?
System 7.0 Finder has flaws that our copy function doesn't have: (Ours copies over 700 folders deep with safety checking,Apple's Finder loses data beyond 99 levels deep.) Also ours functions with little or no "temporary" memory, but Apples Finder will not function always with little "temporary memory"! It can be over twice as fast as System 7.0s Finder, and with large files it has been timed once as over three times faster. Two other popular programs offer "super fast file/folder copying". They are : Salient's DiskDoubler INIT, and CE's DiskTop.  Those programs are not as fast as ours by far! SCSI Director measures over twice as fast as DiskDoubler 3.7 routinely, and much faster than DiskTop 4.01. Also DiskTop lost window scroll positions, icon positions, etcetera (as well as blowing up with heavily nested folders), and DiskDoubler does not faithfully copy window scroll positions and other things. PS. Apple's new free utility called "System 7 Tuneup" makes the finder not as slow.

Technical note: SCSI Director performs this function best if System 7.0 is used, because temporary memory has less restrictions in System 7.0, and is otherwise ignored. For better System 6.x performance, just increase the amount of memory assigned to the program or don't use Multifinder. Currently, File/Folder comments are ignored.


CREATE DIRECTORY LISTING
Use the "Create Directory Listing" command to create a simple report listing the complete contents of a disk or directory.  It has no exciting use, but a few people find it convenient. The correct "physical" file sizes are listed next to each file and totalled at the bottom. The report is saved as Apple's Teach Text format, but usually the reports are huge and must be loaded in a professional word processor to review, search, print, or edit.


COPY PARTITION TO PARTITION
Use the "Copy Partition To Partition" command to copy one standard "Mac" volume (partition) on top of another partition of equal or greater size.  This is the fastest way to copy a partition, because the File Manager is not even used. If the destination is larger, the computer will ask you what you wish to do with the leftover free space. Usually, if it is a lot of space, you might want to convert it into a new Mac partition.

A question that allows the user to prefer to use slower SCSI "write and verify" is also presented. Optical media and other removable media should usually be used with write-verify for safety, but the tradeoff is speed. Some older SCSI devices cannot use the write-verify feature.

This utility has greatest appeal to those with large removable storage devices, and is a very quick, painless way to make frequent full backups.

Note: For safety, the program will not allow you to make backups of a partition that is currently mounted and on-line. It will automatically unmount the partitions for you though. Also, you must not copy to passworded partitions, or from them, the program won't let you. A further safety restriction exists that limits its usage to devices currently under control of this program's SCSI driver. (Devices attached to most SCSI accelerator cards do not use our SCSI driver.)


COPY DEVICES (IMAGE COPY)
This command allows you to copy a range of sectors from one device to another. It is an uncommon function. You can use this command to make an exact  duplicate of an entire device. Additionally, if you are technically adventurous, and know how to match up partition sector numbers, you can use it to make a duplicate of a heavily damaged partition, or use it for other data recovery purposes. It can be used to duplicate ANY type of SCSI storage device configured to communicate on a Macintosh, such as NeXT SCSI disks, MS-DOS SCSI disks etc.


BACKUP PARTITION TO FILES
Use the "Backup Partition To Files" command to backup a partition onto separate files.  The file sizes can be selected, based on the amount of memory available to SCSI Director.  A File size of 770K is preferable because those can be easily copied onto floppy disks. 

Before spending the time to backup a disk volume (partition), you should realize the total effect of your labor.  First of all, you will be creating a lot of file segments.  The files will be used, in sequence, to recreate an exact duplicate of the partition you backup. But a 100 megabyte partition will create about 100 megabytes of files.  Luckily, because they are files, they can be spread around, transferred over networks, stored on floppies in a shoe box, or whatever.  You will only be asked questions on placing files when the destination location becomes filled.  Thus, you will not have to individually name each file, just the first one of the series. Backing up a disk to files is a safe and convenient way to backup and restore... but it sure will take up a lot of storage.  The other important thing to mention is that if only a few files from the backup are desired, you will have to restore the entire partition onto something temporarily.  This can be inconvenient if the temporary storage required is incredibly large.  Therefore try and always limit your partition sizes.

Technical note: SCSI Director inserts special information into each file preventing the files from ever being used in the incorrect sequence, or from intermingling with other backup sessions. Also, for safety, the program will not allow you to make backups of a partition that is currently mounted and on-line.


BACKUP DEVICE TO FILES
Use the "Backup Device To Files" command to backup a series of SCSI sectors onto files. This function performs exactly the same way that the "Backup Partition To Files" command does.  It has one additional special feature, it can perform full or partial backups.  Obviously, a partial backup of low level sectors does not have much value, but to a hard disk restoration technician the ability to copy ranges of healthy sectors for future use, or from a similar working drive to replace atop areas of a destroyed hard disk, is a very valuable tool.  To be truthful, that is the main purpose of this command, and that the command you should use to make backups of partitions is the "Backup Partition To Files" command. 

Note: For hacking convenience, the program will allow you to make backups of a device that is currently in use (has mounted volumes), but keep in mind that sometimes this is not wise.


RESTORE PARTITION FROM FILES
Use the "Restore Partition From Files" command to select a partition that you wish to destroy by filling with data from a partition backup of equal or lesser size. If all the files are accessible in groups, the program will not request the files individually, rather, it will locate them from that location indicated from the last time the user is queried.  This is the counterpart to the "Backup Partition To Files" command. For safety, the program will not allow you to restore onto a partition that is currently mounted and on-line.


RESTORE DEVICE FROM FILES
Use the "Restore Device From Files" command to restore a series of SCSI sectors onto a device. This function performs nearly the same way that the "Restore Partition From Files" command does, except that starting sector addresses can be specified or automatically accepted. The "Restore Device From Files" command is the counterpart to the "Backup Device To Files" command. 

Note: For safety, this function will not allow you to restore sectors onto a device that has partitions currently mounted and on-line.


COMPARE MAC PARTITIONS
Use the "Compare Mac Partitions" command to determine if a partition copy operation was successful, and that the two copies are absolutely identical.  It may also be used to verify whether or not a change took place on a partition since it was last duplicated. It is not very glamorous but can be used to test safety aspects of new devices and configurations.


COMPARE BLOCK RANGE
Use the "Compare Block Range" command to compare two SCSI devices. It is a very uncommonly used function. However, it has many uses. It can be used to see if a "device copy" (Image Copy) was successful and that a new SCSI configuration is working or not. Proper use of this tool could help determine if intermittent media corruption is caused by a computer's operating system, or is hardware related. It can be used to compare two copies of a device after one of the device has been recently changed. Because SCSI devices are widely used, and this command works on non-Mac SCSI devices, it might be used be used to : determine security features of Digital PBX voice mail storage, analyze recent alterations done on workstation disks (UNIX, XENIX, NeXT, OS/2, etc), or compare sustained data read performance between two devices.

===============================================

VIEW OR CHANGE PARTITION
Use the "View or Change Partition" command to re-partition a SCSI device or to review the way a device is partitioned. This command also is automatically invoked after newly partitioning a device to allow further setup. It is graphical. It can add and delete partitions. It can support many types of partitions. It also completely analyzes your device's partitioning for possible corruption before starting. It can be used as a corruption detector or a partitioning viewer. No changes are ever done to the device until 'Done' is finally selected, and a further confirmation is needed if any changes are actually about to take place.

To Delete a partition:
Highlight the partition that you wish to delete (and turn into Free space). Hit the delete button. It will delete them, and clear the old partition, (zap its beginning beginning blocks) if and when 'Done' is selected upon conclusion of all your editing. 

To Add a partition :
Find a Free partition you want to insert the new partition into. Hit the Add button. Select either HFS or choose the dialog that allows any partition to be chosen. It then asks for the size (Showing the current default maximum of the Free partition you are highlighting). All actual changes (as with all features of the partition editor) actually occur only when you are all finished and the 'Done' button is selected. 

Zoom Buttons :
Initially, the view is zoomed rather far out when starting up to see most or all of your partitions, and to eliminate the scrollbar.  Zooming in enough will show relative partition sizes more accurately and allow you to visually gauge their sizes. (This is harder without reading the size values when zoomed out because there is a minimum size a partition will ever shrink to). Thankfully, an accelerated scrollbar exists that makes zooming in a little more comfortable. Zooming in is also necessary for finer control of dynamic partition resizing.

To View/Edit a partition :
When double-clicking a selected partition, or double clicking a non-selected partition, options similar to the "Volumes..." command are presented (read-only, password, etc.). If it is not a Macintosh Volume, then a different dialog appears allowing non-corrupting manipulation of the partitions parameters is shown. This dialog is called the Limited Partition editor/viewer. The partition must be allowable to edit or the dialog will not appear (unless the 'OPTION' key is held to override safety checking).

Limited Partition Editor/Viewer :
This dialog knows whether changes were actually made or not and whether the changes are permissible. To use it on partitions that cannot be modified (such as the partition map or the Device Driver partition)... Hold down the OPTION key while pressing the 'OK' button on the warning dialog.

To get a more comprehensive view of a partition, a full partition viewer is needed when verifying partition corruption detected by the exhaustive test facilities of the partition quality verifier. To see more info hold down the left SHIFT key when double-clicking on a partition. It is the Comprehensive Partition Editor/Viewer. Also note: Using this viewer on special reserved types of partitions requires SHIFT and OPTION to be held while double-clicking.

Comprehensive Partition Editor/Viewer :
Using this would be a rare circumstance, and is actually meant for possible telephone support/recovery by an expert. It is possible to damage partition mapping (in theory) using this dialog. It does not validate all values for reasonability. It should govern the geometric boundary changes that could possibly damage the integrity of the other bordering partitions. (Note: If it complains and tells you it won't allow a certain change, holding down OPTION while dismissing the warning message will actually allow the infraction to occur (in case you are doing disk recovery and repair). Remember to summon the Comprehensive editor/viewer, you need to hold the SHIFT and OPTION keys when double-clicking.

Dynamic Partition Resizing :
Certain types of partitions allow dynamic resizing. (In this case, 'dynamic' means visually interactive, NOT DATA-PRESERVING!) This is done by using the lower left corner zoom rectangle and stretching. To increase a partition's size there should be some free space in 'Free' partitions that border the partition to resize. Decreasing creates free space after the partition. It will find all the adjacent space it can possible utilize. Zooming in allows better control of the new size, but a dialog always asks for the new desired size in blocks before continuing.

That’s about all there is to know about the Partition Editor/Viewer. Enjoy.


