 





USAGE CONDITIONS
 
WHEN TO USE THE APPLICATION
The application can be used from the floppy disk or from a SCSI storage device, such as a hard disk. Here is what should be used in some common situations:

WHEN THE DEVICE TO SET UP IS THE ONLY ONE CONNECTED
If the device to be set up is the only device connected to the computer, then the computer is normally booted from the SCSI Director floppy disk and the application is used from there, to set up the device. The program is too large (even with its own special space-saving 48% self decompression) to fit on a fully configured system disk. Therefore, to run the program from a system disk, the product is provided with a special MicroFinder and a bootable System File.

WHEN THE COMPUTER IS BOOTED FROM A SCSI DEVICE
If the computer is booted from a device other than that which is to be set up, then the application may be started from a copy located on the booted device or from the SCSI Director diskette. The application limits what may be done to the device that the computer is booted from, and also the device from which the application was executed, but there is no limit to what can be done to any other SCSI device connected as long as that device has no open files.

STOPPING THE APPLICATION
To stop the application, select “Quit” from the “File” menu, click the “Quit” button in the set up window, or type command-Q from the keyboard. If you are running the program from the SCSI Director diskette, and you booted from that diskette, then because the Macintosh Finder was replaced with a MicroFinder to save space, you will usually have to "Restart" when you are finished with the program.

THE SET UP WINDOW
The Setup Window is where most work is performed. It is displayed when the application is started, and remains on the screen until the application is stopped. 

Here is a brief overview of what's in the set up window (a detailed description of the features and usage can be found in the “over-150-page” reference manual available for this program, or the on-line help for “Main Window Overview”): The set up window lists º devices connected to the computer, and has a group of buttons which perform the most common things done to SCSI devices. At the top of the set up window is a message box which constantly informs the user of what's currently happening and what to do next.

You may continue by reading the on-line help for “Main Window Overview” to learn more about the Setup Window, or “Preparing a New Device” if you are ready to format a new device.
